README.md, before:

# Simple-Perceptron

Written for 2023 Summer CSC207H1Y (Software Design) at the University of Toronto. Assignment: AI-Assisted Design Exercise. The code written here is based on code generated by ChatGPT. My understanding is that the goal of this exercise was to give the students a better understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of ChatGPT as a programming tool. I did a simple linear perceptron purely because this assignment seemed to allow us to write very simple programs and it seemed fitting to do an early ML algorithm for the AI-assisted design exercise.

This course emphasizes Clean Architecture and SOLID design principles, hence the arguable overengineering. 

## What is implemented? 
A simple perceptron. In this repository, ChatGPT and I have implemented a very basic algorithm for learning a linear binary classifier. It can handle multi-dimensional inputs, but only single-dimension outputs. 

### Features 
- Simple implementation of a perceptron algorithm.
- Text interface 
- Supports two different labeling conventions: {-1, +1} and {0, 1}.

### Known bugs and code smells 
* Lets you put down multiple integers at a time when it only takes one. In those cases, it just takes the first one. 
* The part of trainPerceptron() that handles input data should be rewritten to use fewer indents. 
* I had considered writing the PerceptronFacade class as a façade to better fulfill the single responsibility principle. I haven't done so because the class is fairly small, we're not implementing many training algorithms, and I'd need to either pass a large number of parameters or copy many instance attributes which introduces a new code smell. 
* I think there's a CA violation in TextInterface.chooseLabellingConvention(), but I left it there because I felt that it was actually more easily extensible there since I'd otherwise need to make changes in multiple layers every time I wanted to support new conventions. 

## Design Patterns
Strategy: used to support multiple label types
Dependency injection: PerceptronFacade uses LabellingStrategy but has no direct dependency on it. 
Facade: PerceptronFacade delegates to Perceptron and LabellingStrategy. It could delegate more, but there are diminishing returns. 

## Usage

### Prerequisites
- Java Development Kit (JDK) 8 or later.
- Gradle (optional, for building and running tests).

### To run the program
TextInterface.java for the text interface. 

### Extending the Program
The Perceptron Program is designed to be extensible. To add new labeling strategies or enhance the program's functionality:
1. Create a new `LabelingStrategy` implementation by implementing the `LabelingStrategy` interface.
2. Modify the `Perceptron` class or create new classes as needed to accommodate the new feature.
3. Update the `PerceptronFacade` class if necessary, to expose the new functionality to clients.

Commit message:

Updated README.md after many hours of unnecessary stress because my environment variables got screwed up

README.md, after:

# Simple-Perceptron
Written for 2023 Summer CSC207H1Y (Software Design) at the University of Toronto. Assignment: AI-Assisted Design Exercise. The code written here is based on code generated by ChatGPT. My understanding is that the goal of this exercise was to give the students a better understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of ChatGPT as a programming tool. I did a simple linear perceptron purely because this assignment seemed to allow us to write very simple programs and it seemed fitting to do an early ML algorithm for the AI-assisted design exercise.

This course emphasizes Clean Architecture and SOLID design principles, hence the arguable overengineering.

## What is implemented?
A simple perceptron. In this repository, ChatGPT and I have implemented a very basic algorithm for learning a linear binary classifier. It can handle multi-dimensional inputs, but only single-dimension outputs.
### Features
- Simple implementation of a perceptron algorithm.
- Text interface
- Supports two different labeling conventions: {-1, +1} and {0, 1}.
### Known bugs and code smells
* Lets you put down multiple integers at a time on the same line when it only takes one. In those cases, it just takes the first one.
* The method for handling user 'vector' input should be rewritten. 
* I had considered writing the PerceptronFacade class as a façade for even smaller components to better fulfill the single responsibility principle. I haven't done so because the class is fairly small, we're not implementing many training algorithms, and I'd need to either pass a large number of parameters or copy many instance attributes which introduces a new code smell.
* I think there's a CA violation in TextInterface.chooseLabellingConvention(), but I left it there because I felt that it was actually more easily extensible there since I'd otherwise need to make changes in multiple layers every time I wanted to support new conventions; not only would TextInterface need to be changed to give the user a new option, but PerceptronFacade would also need either make the new LabellingStrategy object or make what seems to be an unnecessary factory since there are only two at the moment. 

## Design Patterns

Strategy: used to support multiple label types

Dependency injection: PerceptronFacade uses LabellingStrategy but has no direct dependency on the classes that implement it.

Façade: PerceptronFacade delegates to Perceptron and LabellingStrategy. It could delegate more, but there are diminishing returns. 

## Usage

### Prerequisites
- Java Development Kit (JDK) 8 or later.

### Installation and running this program
1. Clone this repository
2. Navigate to the project directory (the folder is most likely titled `SimplePerceptron`)
3. Compile `TextInterface.java` from this folder. Command line: `javac src/TextInterface.java`
4. Run the program: `java src/TextInterface`

### Extending the Program
The Perceptron Program is designed to be extensible. To add new labeling strategies:
1. Create a new `LabelingStrategy` implementation by implementing the `LabelingStrategy` interface.
2. Modify the `Perceptron` class or create new classes as needed to accommodate the new feature.
3. Update the `TextInterface` class if necessary, to expose the new functionality to clients.
